docs/export/concerns.md, before:

# Export concerns

| Interface | Explanation |
|---- |----|
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\FromCollection`| Use a Laravel Collection to populate the export. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\FromQuery`| Use an Eloquent query to populate the export. | 
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\FromView`| Use a (Blade) view to to populate the export. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithTitle`| Set the Workbook or Worksheet title. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithHeadings`| Prepend a heading row. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithMapping`| Format the row before it's written to the file. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithColumnFormatting`| Format certain columns. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithMultipleSheets`| Enable multi-sheet support. Each sheet can have its own concerns (except this one). |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\ShouldAutoSize`| Auto-size the columns in the worksheet. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithStrictNullComparison`| Uses strict comparisions when testing cells for null value. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithEvents`| Register events to hook into the PhpSpreadsheet process. |

### Traits

| Trait | Explanation |
|---- |----|
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\Exportable` | Add download/store abilities right on the export class itself.
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\RegistersEventListeners` | Auto-register the available event listeners. |

Commit message:

New concern with count (#1682)
* Added new concern WithCount. Allows export classes that implement the FromQuery concern, to provide their custom count implementation, instead of relying to the query's count.

* Added tests for the WithCount concern.

* Updated docs regarding the WithCount concern.

* Removed code duplication and reduced LOC.

* Fixed test on Laravel 5.5.

* Package orchestra/database is needed for Laravel 5.5 builds.

* Installing orchestra/database unconditionally.

* Renamed trait WithCount to the more expressive WithCustomQuerySize.

* Fixed some code styling issues.

* ConsoleServiceProvider is always available. No need to check for its existence.

* Renamed `count` to `querySize`.

* Added explanatory comments in the `querySize` method's docblock.

docs/export/concerns.md, after:

# Export concerns

| Interface | Explanation |
|---- |----|
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\FromCollection`| Use a Laravel Collection to populate the export. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\FromQuery`| Use an Eloquent query to populate the export. | 
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\FromView`| Use a (Blade) view to to populate the export. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithTitle`| Set the Workbook or Worksheet title. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithHeadings`| Prepend a heading row. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithMapping`| Format the row before it's written to the file. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithColumnFormatting`| Format certain columns. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithMultipleSheets`| Enable multi-sheet support. Each sheet can have its own concerns (except this one). |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\ShouldAutoSize`| Auto-size the columns in the worksheet. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithStrictNullComparison`| Uses strict comparisions when testing cells for null value. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithEvents`| Register events to hook into the PhpSpreadsheet process. |
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\WithCustomQuerySize`| Allows Exportables that implement the FromQuery concern, to provide their own custom query size. |

### Traits

| Trait | Explanation |
|---- |----|
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\Exportable` | Add download/store abilities right on the export class itself.
|`Maatwebsite\Excel\Concerns\RegistersEventListeners` | Auto-register the available event listeners. |
